.. currentmodule:: bme280
.. _bme280:


Class BME280
============

This module provides the interfaces to use the BME280 and BMP280 sensors.  These sensors provide a range of atmospheric measurements, being:

* atmospheric temperature
* atmospheric pressure
* relative humidity (not the BMP280)

The BME280 class in this module provides the principal functionality.

Example usage::

    from machine import SoftI2C, Pin
    from bme280 import BME280
    import time
    i2c = SoftI2C(scl=Pin('P3A'), sda=Pin('P3B')) # set up the I2C interface
    sensor = BME280(i2c=i2c) # set up a BME280 sensor using the I2C bus

    while True: # loop runs forever
        temperature = sensor.values[0] # obtain the sensor readings
        pressure = sensor.values[1]
        humidity = sensor.values[2]

        # add code to do something with the readings, e.g.
        print(temperature, "C ", pressure, "hPa ", humidity, "%")

        # Then sleep for 1 second to allow the DHT to tae the next reading
        time.sleep(2)


Constructors
------------

.. class:: bme280.BME280(i2c=i2c, mode=BME280_OSAMPLE_8, address=BME280_I2CADDR, **kwargs)

    Creates a *BME280* sensor object.

    i2c is an I2C interface object which has been created using machine.SoftI2C().

    mode is the setting for oversampling of the humidity value, and has the default value shown if omitted.
    The valid operating modes (see the sensor data-sheet) are: 

    - BME280_OSAMPLE_1 = 1
    - BME280_OSAMPLE_2 = 2
    - BME280_OSAMPLE_4 = 3
    - BME280_OSAMPLE_8 = 4 (default)
    - BME280_OSAMPLE_16 = 5

	address is the I2C address of the bme280 sensor, which is usually hexadecimal 0x77 (which is 119 decimal).


Properties
----------

The module presents the sensor readings as properties.

Values::

    temperature, pressure, humidity = sensor.values

Where:

  -	temperature: is the temperature in degrees Celsius.
  -	pressure: is the atmospheric pressure in hectoPascals.
  -	humidity: is the relative humidity in percent.

Altitude::

    altitude = sensor.altitude
    
The altitude is in metres and is calculated based on the value given to the property bme.sealevel (see below). 
The value for sea-level pressure does not have to be the actual sea-level pressure, but any pressure you may select, 
for instance to measure altitude difference in general.

Sea level may be both read and set::

    sensor.sealevel = sealevel
    sealevel = sensor.sealevel


The default sea-level pressure is 1013.25 hPa, but you can use your local published pressure in hPa (look up QNH on your meteorological website),
or set a local pressure to determine altitude difference.
See also https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Altimeter_setting

Dew Point::

    dew_point = sensor.dew_point


Provides the dew_point temperature (°C) calculated from the actual temperature and humidity.
See also https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dew_point

Sensor Type::

    type = sensor.sensor


Provides a sensor type as a string variable being one of ('BMP280','BME280','BME680', or 'unknown') depending on the sensor id
in the relevant sensor hardware register.

The data-sheets for the sensor and breakout board can be found here:

* https://wiki.dfrobot.com/Gravity__I2C_BME280_Environmental_Sensor__Temperature,_Humidity,_Barometer__SKU__SEN0236 
* https://www.bosch-sensortec.com/media/boschsensortec/downloads/datasheets/bst-bme280-ds002.pdf 
