.. currentmodule:: ccs811
.. _ccs811:


Class CCS811
=============

This module provides the class and functions to use the CCS811 sensor chip which detects carbon dioxide (CO2) in parts per million (ppm) 
and total volatile organic compounds (tVOC) in parts per billion (ppb). 

The sensor is a digital metal oxide gas sensor which detects a wide range of volatile organic compounds. 
The module starts the sensor in constant power mode, giving a new measurement every second.

The module contains a class CCS811.CCS811 which provides four functions as shown.  
The principal function is data_ready() which returns a value of True when the sensor data are ready in the variable eCO2 and tVOC. 
Usage of the module is best achieved by following this example:

Example usage::

  from CCS811 import CCS811
  def main(): # define the function main()
    from machine import SoftI2C # import the I2C class from machine
    import time # import the time module
    i2c = SoftI2C('P3') # set up an I2C serial interface object using connector ‘P3’
    sensor = CCS811(i2c) # create a CCS811 object assigned to the variable ‘sensor’ using the I2C interface
    time.sleep(1) # give the sensor time to initialise
    while True: # run in this loop forever
        if sensor.data_ready(): # when new data is ready
            print('eCO2: %d ppm, TVOC: %d ppb' % (sensor.eCO2, sensor.tVOC)) # print CO2 and tVOC readings
    main() # run the function


CCS811 Constructors
-------------------

.. class:: CCS811.CCS811(i2c, addr=0x5A)

  Creates a CCS811 object as a device on the nominated I2C bus:

  - *i2c* is an I2C bus interface object created by :class:`machine.SoftI2C`
  - *addr* is one of the valid I2C device addresses supported by the CCS811 sensor chip - (``0x5A`` (default) or ``0x5B``)

.. method:: CCS811.data_ready()

  Returns true if new sensor data is available. 
  
  The sensor readings accessible in the parameters *CCS811.eCO2* and *CCS811.tVOV*

.. method:: CCS811.get_baseline()
.. method:: CCS811.put_baseline(HB, LB)

  The put_baseline() and get_baseline() functions are used for external calibration of the sensor’s heating element, 
  which is normally automatically internally maintained.  Therefore there is not normally a need to use these functions.

.. method:: CCS811.put_envdata(humidity, temp)

  The accuracy of the readings are affected by temperature and humidity, and can be improved by using the 
  *put_envdata(humidity, temperature)* function in conjunction with another sensor such as the bme280 or 
  dht to provide the compensating data.  Humidity is relative humidity in %, and temperature is in degrees Centigrade.



The data-sheet and a typical breakout board for the CCS811 sensor can be found here: 

  - https://download.mikroe.com/documents/datasheets/CCS811.pdf
  - https://dfimg.dfrobot.com/nobody/wiki/7334c560756596ba0cf3f1d2102d19dd.pdf 
  - https://wiki.dfrobot.com/Gravity:%20CCS811%20Air%20Quality%20Sensor%20SKU:%20SEN0318 

